<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" /> 
    <title>GR2 format</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../sty.css" />
  </head>
  <body id="top">
    <p>Next: <a href="../matrix/matrix.xhtml">Matrix formats</a>, Previous: <a href="../field/field.xhtml">Field formats</a>, Up: <a href="../form.xhtml">Top</a></p>
    <hr /> 

    <h3>GR2 format</h3>

    <p><strong>On this page:</strong></p>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="#desc">Description</a></li>
      <li><a href="#var">Variables</a></li>
      <li><a href="#file">Writing a <em>.gr2</em> file</a></li>
    </ul>

    <h4 id="desc">Description</h4>
    <p>The format GR2 (<em>Graph 2D</em>) is related with the data files admited by the module TRACXX of  
    <a href="https://www.rocq.inria.fr/modulef/">Modulef</a>. The file extension for the format GR2 is also <em>.gr2</em>.</p>

    <p>The main features of this format are:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>The file can store several graphs, each of them with different abscisas.</li>
      <li>The file also stores strings defining the graph title, labels and legend.</li>
    </ul>
    <div class="back"><a href="#top">Back to top</a></div>
    
    <h4 id="var">Variables</h4>
    <p>The variables needed to define a <em>.gr2</em> file are:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><var>title</var> is a string with the graph title;</li>
      <li><var>xlabel</var> is a string with the label for abscissas;</li>
      <li><var>ylabel</var> is a string with the label for ordinates;</li>
      <li><var>n</var> is a integer value with the number of graphics; for each <var>i</var> in {1, ..., <var>n</var>}, </li>
      <li><var>np<sub>i</sub></var> is a integer value with the total number of points that form the <var>i</var>-th graph;</li>
      <li><var>x<sub>i</sub></var> is a double array of length <var>np<sub>i</sub></var> containing the abscissas of the <var>i</var>-th graph;</li>
      <li><var>y<sub>i</sub></var> is a double array of length <var>np<sub>i</sub></var> containing the ordinates of the <var>i</var>-th graph;</li>
      <li><var>legend<sub>i</sub></var> is a string with a legend description of the <var>i</var>-th graph.</li>
    </ul>
    <div class="back"><a href="#top">Back to top</a></div>
            
    <h4 id="file">Writing a <em>.gr2</em> file</h4>
    <p>Every <em>.gr2</em> file must be written in ASCII and be composed of the following records:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>A first record containing <var>n</var>; for each <var>i</var> in {1, ..., <var>n</var>},
        <ol class="alpha">
          <li>a record containing <var>np<sub>i</sub></var>;</li>
          <li>a record containing <var>x<sub>i</sub></var> with its components separated by blank spaces;</li>
          <li>a record containing <var>y<sub>i</sub></var> with its components separated by blank spaces;</li>
        </ol>
      </li>
      <li>A record containing <var>title</var>;</li>
      <li>A record containing <var>xlabel</var>;</li>
      <li>A record containing <var>ylabel</var>;</li>
      <li>Finally, for each <var>i</var> in {1, ..., <var>n</var>}, a record containing <var>legend<sub>i</sub></var>.</li>
      </ol>           
      <p>We present an example of a <em>.gr2</em> file that define two graphs, the first one, <em>Aluminum conductivity</em>, is composed of 3 
      points and the second one, <em>Copper conductivity</em> has 4 points. The title is <em>Conductivity  vs. temperature</em> and the axis labels 
      are <em>Temperature (K)</em> and <em>Conductivity (W/(m·K))</em>:</p>
      <pre class="xml">2
3
293.  295. 298.
204.3 205. 220.
4
293. 295. 298. 300. 
385. 386. 390. 401.
Conductivity  vs. temperature
Temperature (K)
Conductivity (W/(m·K))
Aluminum conductivity
Copper conductivity</pre>   
    <div class="back"><a href="#top">Back to top</a></div>
    
    <hr />
    <p>&copy; 2012 - <a href="http://www.usc.es/ingmat/?lang=en">Ingeniería Matemática</a></p>
  </body>
</html>

