<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" /> 
    <title>Beginner: Actions</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../sty.css" />
  </head>
  <body id="top">
    <p>Next: <a href="visualization1.xhtml">Mesh visualization</a>, Previous: <a href="structs.xhtml">Structs</a>, Up: <a href="index.xhtml">Top</a></p>
    <hr /> 

    <h3>Actions</h3>
	<p>
	In this example we introduce a new tag, the <a href="../../xml/action.xhtml"><code>action</code></a> tag. With this tag you can launch or stop a executable process and clean the widgets and visualization areas.
	</p>

	<p>
	The <a href="../../xml/action.xhtml"><code>action</code></a> tag can only appear as a unique <a href="../../xml/menu.xhtml#submenu"><code>submenu</code></a> child. The <code>name</code> attribute of the <a href="../../xml/action.xhtml"><code>action</code></a> tag indicates the type of action to perform.
	</p>

    <h4 id="Run">Run executable file</h4>

	<p>
	To run a executable file its mandatory the use of the <a href="../../xml/action.xhtml"><code>action</code></a> tag with the <code>name="exec"</code> attribute. The <a href="../../xml/action.xhtml"><code>action</code></a> tag can contain childs with the <code>param</code> tag, those elements are an ordered list of executables to run.
	</p>

	<pre class="xml">&lt;action name="exec"&gt;
	&lt;param&gt;executable.bat&lt;/param&gt;
&lt;/action&gt;</pre>

    <h4 id="Run">Stops executable file</h4>

	<p>
	To stop a process started from <strong>OpenNum</strong>, you can use the <a href="../../xml/action.xhtml"><code>action</code></a> tag with the <code>name="kill_exec"</code> attribute. This will kill the last process launched from <strong>OpenNum</strong>.
	</p>

	<pre class="xml">&lt;action name="kill_exec"&gt;
&lt;/action&gt;</pre>


    <h4 id="Run">Close plots</h4>

	<p>
	It is also posible to close all the the open plots and clear de widget area with <a href="../../xml/action.xhtml"><code>action</code></a> tag. To get this action done you have to set the attribute <code>name="close_plots"</code>.
	</p>

	<pre class="xml">&lt;action name="close_plots" /&gt;</pre>


    <div class="back"><a href="#top">Back to top</a></div>
    <hr />
    <p>&copy; 2012 - <a href="http://www.usc.es/ingmat/?lang=en">Ingeniería Matemática</a></p>
  </body>
</html>
