<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" /> 
    <title>VTK format</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../sty.css" />
  </head>
  <body id="top">
    <p>Next: <a href="unv.xhtml">UNV format</a>, Up: <a href="mesh.xhtml">Top</a></p>
    <hr /> 

    <h3>VTK formats</h3>

    <p><strong>On this page:</strong></p>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="#leg">VTK legacy format</a></li>
      <li><a href="#xml">VTK XML format</a></li>
      <li><a href="#vtk+">VTK+ format</a></li>
    </ul>

    <p>The <a href="http://www.vtk.org/">Visualization Toolkit</a> (VTK) is an open-source, freely available software system for 3D computer graphics, image processing and visualization, distributed by <a href="http://www.kitware.com/">Kitware, Inc.</a> VTK  also provides some of its <a href="http://www.vtk.org/VTK/img/file-formats.pdf">own file formats</a>.</p>
    
    <p>The Visualization Toolkit supports five different dataset formats: structured points, structured grid, rectilinear grid, unstructured grid, and polygonal data. <span class="ok">OpenNum admits all the datasets of the VTK format</span>. In this regard, VTK only permit Lagrange P1 and P2 finite elements.</p>
    
    <h4 id="leg">VTK legacy format</h4>
    <p>The <a href="http://www.vtk.org/VTK/img/file-formats.pdf"><em>VTK legacy</em></a> is the simplest VTK format. The file extension is <em>.vtk</em>.</p>
    <div class="back"><a href="#top">Back to top</a></div>
    
    <h4 id="xml">VTK XML format</h4>
    <p>The <a href="http://www.vtk.org/VTK/img/file-formats.pdf"><em>VTK XML</em></a> is a more sophisticated VTK format that allows data streaming and parallel I/O. The files containing <em>UnstructuredGrid</em> datasets have extension <em>.vtu</em>.</p>
    <div class="back"><a href="#top">Back to top</a></div>

    <h4 id="vtk+">VTK+ format</h4>
    <p>The previous formats allow us to save the coordinates of the mesh nodes and the connectivity of the finite elements. However, there is not a standard way to save the reference numbering of nodes, edges, faces and elements. Since the VTK formats also permits to save integer fields associated to the mesh, we have proposed the next procedure to consider reference numbering:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>Given an edge or face with a non-zero reference number, include the edge or face as a finite element in the mesh;</li>
      <li>Define the following integer fields:
        <ul>
          <li>the pointdata field  <span class="ok"><em>vertex_ref</em></span>  takes the node reference number in every node of the mesh;</li>
          <li>the celldata field  <span class="ok"><em>edge_ref</em></span>  takes the edge reference number in every edge incorporated to the mesh and zero otherwise;</li>
          <li>the celldata field  <span class="ok"><em>face_ref</em></span>  takes the face reference number in every face incorporated to the mesh and zero otherwise;</li>
          <li>the celldata field  <span class="ok"><em>element_ref</em></span>  takes the element reference number in every mesh element and zero otherwise;</li>
        </ul>
      </li>  
    </ol>
    <p>When a VTK file have these fields its mesh has reference numbers associated to its entities, so its suitable to be used in a finite element solver.</p>
    <p>OpenNum recognizes both VTK legacy and VTK XML formats with the mentioned fields. If you plan to create files of these type, you should use the file extension <em>.vtk+</em> for VTK legacy and <em>.vtu+</em> for VTK XML <em>UnstructuredGrid</em>.</p>
    
    <div class="back"><a href="#top">Back to top</a></div>
        
    <hr />
    <p>&copy; 2015 <a href="http://www.usc.es/">Universidade de Santiago de Compostela</a></p>
  </body>
</html>

