<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" /> 
    <title>XML syntax</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../sty.css" />
  </head>
  <body id="top">
    <p>Next: <a href="../samp/samp.xhtml">Sample apps</a>, Previous: <a href="../conf/conf.xhtml">Configuration</a>, Up: <a href="../index.xhtml">Top</a></p>
    <hr /> 

    <h2>XML syntax</h2>

    <p>In this section, the complete list of elements and attributes allowed in the menu's description is given. This information is coded using <a href="http://www.w3.org/XML/">XML format</a>, a metalanguage developed by <a href="http://www.w3.org/">W3C</a>.</p>
    <p>In the XML format, each block of information, or <em>element</em>, is delimited by a <em>start-tag</em> and a <em>end-tag</em>. For example, the start- and end-tags for element <em>struct</em> are <code>&lt;struct&gt;</code> and <code>&lt;/struct&gt;</code>. The characters between the start- and end-tags, if any, are the element's <em>content</em>, and may contain markup, including other elements, which are called <em>child</em> elements.</p>
    <p>Elements in XML can have <em>attributes</em>, that is, a name/value pair. For example, the element <em>struct</em> can have the attribute <em>selection</em> with the value <em>single</em>: <code>&lt;struct selection="single"&gt;</code>.</p>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="menu.xhtml">Menus</a>
        <p>Describes the elements to create menu and submenu items.</p>
      </li>
      <li><a href="struct.xhtml">Structures</a>
        <p>Describes the element to create structures.</p>
      </li>
      <li><a href="action.xhtml">Actions</a>
        <p>Describes the element to call executable files.</p>
      </li>
      <li><a href="leaf.xhtml">Leaves</a>
        <p>Describes the elements to contain data.</p>
      </li>
      <li><a href="help.xhtml">Custom help</a>
        <p>Explains how to include custom help in structures and leaves.</p>
      </li>
      <li><a href="dep.xhtml">Dependencies</a>
        <p>Explains how to create dependencies between menu elements.</p>
      </li>
      <li><a href="visual.xhtml">Visualization</a>
        <p>Describes the elements to create visualizations.</p> 
      </li>
      <li><a href="form.xhtml">Formulas</a>
        <p>Describes how to apply formulas to fields.</p> 
      </li>
      <li><a href="data.xhtml">Data file</a>
        <p>Describes the data file created by de interface.</p> 
      </li>
    </ul>  

    <hr />
    <p>&copy; 2012 - <a href="http://www.usc.es/ingmat/?lang=en">Ingeniería Matemática</a></p>
  </body>
</html>

