<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8" /> 
    <title>Help</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../sty.css" />
  </head>
  <body id="top">
    <p>Next: <a href="mat.xhtml">Material database</a>, Previous: <a href="app.xhtml">Applications</a>, Up: <a href="conf.xhtml">Top</a></p>
    <hr /> 

    <h3>Help</h3>

    <p>You can distribute your own help with the package. Help files must be located in the folder <code>&lt;<em>installdir</em>&gt;/help</code>, where <code>&lt;<em>installdir</em>&gt;</code> is the installation folder.</p>
    <p>All the subfolders in <code>help</code> will be shown as submenu items in the menu  <span class="menu">Help</span> in alphabetical order. To change that order, the subfolders can be named as <code><em>prefix-name</em></code>, where <code><em>name</em></code> is the submenu's name and <code><em>prefix</em></code> is a string only used to alphabetize the submenus items. For example, creating the subfolders  <code>a-Getting Started</code> and <code>b-Applications Manual</code>, <em>Getting Started</em> and <em>Applications manual</em> will appear as submenus, in that order.</p>
    <p>Every subfolder must contain at least one HTML / XHTML file to act as an index of the rest of the files: OpenNum searches the names <code>index.xhtml</code>, <code>index.html</code> and <code>index.htm</code>, in that order. Its content is shown when the users selects the submenu item in the <strong>Help</strong> menu. To show them, OpenNum calls the application associated by the operating system to HTML files (usually, a web browser).</p>
    <div class="back"><a href="#top">Back to top</a></div>
    
    <hr />
    <p>&copy; 2015 <a href="http://www.usc.es/">Universidade de Santiago de Compostela</a></p>
  </body>
</html>

